[Music]
an unprecedented military operation by
Hamas and a colossal failure of Israeli
intelligence it's been by far the
deadliest day in the Israeli Palestinian
conflict in 50 years well right now more
than 20 more than two million residents
of Gaza are spending their night in
darkness and Terror these are live
pictures from
Gaza
well just moments ago Israel launched
another air strike on Gaza prime
minister Benyamin Netanyahu has asked
gazans who are under Israel's Land Air
and sea blockade to quote leave the
territory now he's vowed to turn Hamas
sites into Rubble in a war he says he's
determined to win so far more than 230
Palestinians have been killed by Israeli
air
strikes well inside Israel gun battles
have been continuing for hours between
Hamas Fighters and Israeli forces the
death toll there stands at 250 in the
southern city of stot Palestinian
Fighters seized a police station Israeli
forces demolished part of the building
with a bulldozer well as night fell
Israel said it was engaged in gun
battles in 22 locations alzer's wrestle
SAR takes us through a day of
extraordinary
developments an unprecedented
Palestinian attack on
Israel hamama says it fired as many as
7,000 short and long range Rockets from
Gaza into Israeli
territory shortly afterwards the kasan
brigades the Rous military Wing launched
a ground assault with Fighters breaching
the Border fence into
Israel some using
paragliders Hamas says the offensive is
in response to the desecration of the
Alexa mosque and what it calls the
crimes of Israel's
occupation the time has come to draw the
line for the enemy to understand their
time is up and they can't keep going
without consequences we are announcing
an operation called alaxa floods in the
first part of it 5,000 Rockets have been
fired it is the time to unite all the
Arab and Islamic powers to overthrow the
Israeli
occupation members of the Islamic Jihad
armed group in Gaza answered the call to
Arms scenes emerged of Palestinian
Fighters attacking Israeli military
checkpoints luing seizing and burning
vehicles and taking many Israeli
soldiers and civilians
[Music]
prisoner this is the Battle of not only
the Palestinians or the gazin it is the
Battle of all the Arab and Muslim
nations simply for the reason that it is
the battle for Palestine it is the
battle for Jerusalem it is the battle
for the AL AA mosque the Aras border
crossing between Gaza and Israel has
also been bried and the member of the
Kasam brigades fought with Israeli
forces at a police station in the city
of
sidot Israel says hundreds of his
citizens have been killed and many more
injured prime minister Benyamin
Netanyahu spoke of a state of War
calling up military reservist and
declaring a 48h hour civil
emergency we will take revenge for all
the young people who lost their lives we
will Target all of hamas's positions
we will turn Gaza into a deserted island
to the citizens of Gaza I say you must
leave now we will Target each and every
corner of the
strip Israel's multiple air strikes on
the Gaza Strip have already claimed
hundreds of Palestinian lives and
injured more than a thousand one of the
strikes hit the 11 story Palestine
Tower just meters away from alzer's
Bureau where the media offices and
lawyers were
located first a warning
strike and a few minutes later complete
destruction it is the Israeli
Palestinian conflict's most significant
escalation in years with a rising that
tool on both sides where and how it will
end it's too soon to
say R SAR Al jazer so let's get some
live updates from Al a correspondents
joining us this hour John henan is in
Washington DC but first let's talk to
Villa Barks in West Jerusalem uh villm
said the Israeli Army says fighting is
still taking place in the South just
bring us up to date will you uh on
what's Happening uh in
stot well we had these 3500 Rockets over
the course of the day Landing uh trying
to land at least in parts of Israel
fired from Gaza according to Israeli
authorities you had all these gunmen
entering up to 22 different locations
outside the Gaza Strip some of the more
than 20 km from the border between Gaza
and Israel and over the course of the
night according to Israeli military
officials there have still been a number
of gunmen HED up in some of the kbit in
the communities on the edge of Gaza uh
many of them holding hostages and in the
instance in STO you just mentioned there
that was a police office that was held
by militants for many many hours
surrounded by Israeli police and milit
forces eventually over the last couple
of hours Israeli officials saying that
they have taken control of that police
station instad do and have killed 10
militants involved in holding on to it
throughout much of the day and villm
what's the likelihood now then of an
Israeli ground incursion into Gaza I
mean we've seen Israel do this in past
Gaza Wars and it's extremely costly in
lives on both
sides over the last few hours we've seen
huge numbers of heavy Weaponry including
tanks and artillery being moved South
down towards the area around Gaza the
Israeli military has warned Israeli
civilians to stay away from that region
it is now under military control we've
heard from Israeli officials they've
been calling up thousands of reservists
hoping to call up many thousands more
this is a war as Benjamin Netanyahu the
Prime Minister here in Israel has called
it he has vowed to turn Gaza into an
island of ruins in an address to the
Israeli public earlier this evening and
what's obviously very striking about how
that will be accomplished is the fact
that there are so many hostages held by
Hamas according to their official
leadership inside the Gaza Strip and
that will make it incredibly complicated
as an operation whether it's by air or
by ground to try and take back those to
hostages inside hostile territory all
right vill marks live for us there in
West Jerusalem villm thank you for that
let's go live now to John Hendry he's in
Washington DC John so Us Secret of State
Anthony blinkin he's been on the phone
to Regional leaders as well as both the
Palestinians and Israelis Washington
says it wants to deescalate but it's
still pledging its support for Israel
isn't
it it's right in the US there is
universal support being expressed for
Israel uh blinkin has been on the phone
with the foreign Ministers of Egypt
turkey the president of the Palestinian
Authority and in the last couple of
hours he's talked to muham althani or at
least we were told that he has talked to
Muhammad althani the Prime Minister and
foreign minister of qar and what he
appears to be doing is trying to get
anyone with any influence on Hamas to
try to get them to draw back uh the
president of the United States as well
has expressed unequivocal support for
Israel in this conflict as you might
expect an American president to do this
is what he had to
say Israel has the right to defend
itself and his people full
stop there's never justification for
terrorist attacks and my Administration
and support for Israel security is Rock
Solid and unwavering let me say this as
clearly as I can this is not a moment
for any party hostile to Israel to
exploit these attacks to seek Advantage
the world is watching uh John said does
this unwavering us support for Israel
now mean more weapons and more military
aid for Israel
well the US starts out by giving about
$3 billion dollars in Aid to Israel each
year the White House says that it is in
ongoing talks with Israel to supply
military aid but there are some
obstacles to that first of all uh Biden
himself does not have a great
relationship with Benyamin Netanyahu as
vice president to uh Barack Obama he
visited Israel in order to try to
persuade them to stop building
settlements Netanyahu announced Ed new
settlements at that time that was widely
considered a snub also there is no US
ambassador to Jerusalem at this time and
uh that would hinder any effort to try
to uh to try to build a bridge to create
that Aid also the US Congress is in
complete disarray so if they were to
have to approve new Aid which they would
have to do to go beyond that $3 billion
figure uh you'd have to have a speaker
of the house which you are not going to
have until Wednesday and then you have
the difficult negotiation uh between a
republican controlled house and a
democratically controlled Senate
although on this particular issue they
might be inclined to work together but
as I say that's not going to happen
before they select a speaker of the
house all right John hendron life us
there in Washington DC John thank you